---
title: "Introduction"
weight: 1
# geekdocFlatSection: false
# geekdocToc: 6
# geekdocHidden: false
---

Industrial Revolution is a real-time iteration of Civilization-like games. Civilization is a 4X game: eXplore, eXpand, eXploit and eXterminate. There is just one way to play: get as big as fast as possible and military reigns supreme (+90 % of unit types on the map are military units). Industrial Revolution does things differently:

* The game is a real-time simulation of a society during the Industrial Revolution. It is a sandbox of interconnected systems.
* Trade and development of your society are the core principles of the game. Because the day-to-day life in human history is and was not solely dominated by warfare.
* In this society the player incorporates an emerging nation state. By the foundation of factories and construction of infrastructure, he influences, encourages, and controls trade. Wealth is generated by industry and trade and feeds back into the exponentially expanding industrialization. Wealth is also used to finance a military, which protects the player’s nation against rivalling nation states.
* Are you able to develop your nation fast enough and gain enough strength, until the unavoidable (?) Great War lights the world on fire?
* The fun part of the game is influencing this system to increase the power of your state (player agency and power fantasy) and watching the different parts of the system work together (ant farm experience, the player has just an indirect impact on main parts of the system).
* Decisions should always be meaningful. A decision should always have drawbacks or costs (except promoting trade, should this always be a win-win situation?).
* The endgame is the ever rising pressure of rival nation states. In the end they have to be fought to preserve the freedom of your nation (think independence wars of Colonization).
* Think about a mechanic, which makes the player choose by his own will war and aggression. -> Military-Industrial Complex: escalating political tension leads to more tax money being used for military spending and weapons development instead of other state activities. The player has no direct control of budgeting. But by choosing escalation, he gets more money for his industries.

### Who may want to play that game?

* If you enjoy creating a small world
* If you like to immerse yourself into a fantasy world with strong connections to the time of the Industrial Revolution
* If you enjoy emerging gameplay and narrative

### What are you doing in Industrial Revolution?

* Build factories and infrastructure for a trade network to earn wealth.
* Use this wealth to advance technology, accelerate the industrial development and prepare your nation against your rivals.
* Develop your nation and build a strong defense to win the final clash of the Great War.

### Other features of Industrial Revolution

* The landscape/map is made out of tiles.
* The map is predefined and consists of a diverse landscape with streams and river valleys. At first the map represents an island nation (no land interactions with other nations).
* There are resources to trade and a money resource for price and cost calculations
* The population is dynamic. People go from places with high unemployment/low wages to places with need for workers/high wages.

### Transcendence

Transcendence means, that the game gives insight into real world issues:

* Industrial Revolution
* State building
* Trade economy

### Decisions

A good game is a sequence of interesting and meaningful decisions.

[Population](docs/the-nation/population/) groups have a value for workforce share and education. Workforce share ist the percentage value of a population who actively work in their population's profession. For example children and the elderly may not take part in bread-earning activities. The total education level of all population groups influences the nation's scientific progress. The player influences by political decisions, if children will work in factories or will go to school. Or in other words: if the nation will be an industrial powerhouse or a scientific leader.
